The onset of the digital age has resulted in an insurmountable volume of news for a consumer to read. With the advent of the internet, not only are all the traditional news outlets publishing stories (and not just about local news, but news from all over the globe), but blogs are getting in on the act as well. In May 2017 President Donald Trump visited the Vatican. If I were to search Google News on the 24th May 2017, Id find a story about the Presidents meeting with the Pope. On further inspection, I can see that there are several pages of results about the meeting itself, from dozens of different news sources. Theyve all covered the story from different perspectives as well. Some have covered the contents of the meeting itself, some covered the general concept of the meeting in the wider context of Trumps trip to Saudi Arabia earlier that week, and some even chose to focus on everyones attire at the meeting. When a consumer has to search for the news and find these sources themselves, its more than probable that they will end up missing something. Also, which sources should they go to? And how many sources are enough to get a full and accurate picture? News Aggregators, such as Flipboard and Apple News, remove the requirement for a user to source articles themselves. The aggregators find the news and present it to the user in a way that is nicely grouped by topic. Other aggregators, such as Google News, allow consumers to search for news topics of their choosing as well, and present all the articles it finds on the same topic. But these solutions dont go far enough, as they dont address a major issue - there is still a very high volume of news. In July 2016 a study was conducted by the Statistic Brain Research Institute that said that the average attention span of a person is now as low as 8.25 seconds. In addition to this, the Institutes findings also said that the average person only reads 28\% of a webpage of average length (593 words). Another key finding was that users spend only 4.4 seconds to cover each additional 100 words on a webpage. Its simply not feasible for a consumer to go through several different sources take on a piece of news, which is what many aggregators still expect them to do. My solution is for a news aggregator that goes further. My news aggregator, NewSumm, would have a primary aim of not only aggregating news, but of combining multiple sources articles on a piece of news, and summarising them into one short piece. Using the example from before, the intention would be that the consumer only has to read one summary that incorporates the facts from several different sources on Trumps visit to the Vatican. There is also the issue of reliability and trust to consider. The Digital News Report 2016 found that in the United Kingdom only 50\% of readers trust what they see in the news. Could this be a case that there is simply so much news that it is hard to tell which is real? This could be the case because some readers will also be aware that a consequence of the new digital age is that anyone with an internet connection can create a blog and start spreading fake news. Whilst it should be emphasised that the primary aim of NewSumm would be to reduce the sheer volume of news that a consumer has to read, it could be argued that the problem of fake news could be indirectly minimised in the same way that other news aggregators attempt to tackle the issue. This would be by limiting articles to trusted sources from across the political spectrum. This would be reputable news organisations, and articles from random blogs on the internet would not be considered. In addition to this, a clear indication when reading the summary of what facts different outlets all agree on, and what facts they either differ on or omit, will allow the user to easily corroborate parts of the story. A further secondary aim to this could be to allow a user to customise their summary, taking in information from the outlets of their choice (from the original trusted list). The advantage to this would potentially be that if a user decides that too many issues from one source are uncorroborated, they can remove them, and see only information from the other sources that have written about a topic. The disadvantage to this could be that if a user dismisses an entire section of the political spectrum as uncorroborated continuously, theyll pick up a political bias on the facts of the topic. Although, it could be said that the Digital News Report 2016 findings suggest that this is a feature that wont be used much. One of the more interesting findings in the report was that more than 60\% (in the United Kingdom) were concerned about the potential impact of personalising their news feeds. They felt that it could lead to both missing information and missing challenging viewpoints. The remainder of this report will follow the development of this concept, as both a website and as an iOS application. The following sections will set out NewSumm to be an ambitious project that aims to automatically fetch, label, cluster and summarise articles without supervision. NewSumm will be outlined as a user-friendly application that allows consumers a large level of control over what they read, through topic subscriptions and the ability to alter sources for summaries, as well as providing a daily digest for users who want them. Whilst the ultimate goal of an abstractive summarisation tool in the back end will prove to be infeasible, NewSumm, after thorough evaluation, will be found to be an application that provides more than competent summarisation of articles and effective clustering that goes a large way to reducing the large volume of news that a consumer has to get through. Going side by side with this evaluation of the fundamentals of the system itself is a rigorous analysis of the summaries produced to establish whether the system can be affected by the various political biases of its sources. The root causes of any political bias will also be fully investigated, and the role of the neutral source in a summary will also be discussed.

The onset of the digital age has resulted in an insurmountable volume of news for a consumer to read. With the advent of the internet, not only are all the traditional news outlets publishing stories (and not just about local news, but news from all over the globe), but blogs are getting in on the act as well. In May 2017 President Donald Trump visited the Vatican. If I were to search Google News on the 24th May 2017, Id find a story about the Presidents meeting with the Pope. On further inspection, I can see that there are several pages of results about the meeting itself, from dozens of different news sources. Theyve all covered the story from different perspectives as well. Some have covered the contents of the meeting itself, some covered the general concept of the meeting in the wider context of Trumps trip to Saudi Arabia earlier that week, and some even chose to focus on everyones attire at the meeting. When a consumer has to search for the news and find these sources themselves, its more than probable that they will end up missing something. Also, which sources should they go to? And how many sources are enough to get a full and accurate picture? News Aggregators, such as Flipboard and Apple News, remove the requirement for a user to source articles themselves. The aggregators find the news and present it to the user in a way that is nicely grouped by topic. Other aggregators, such as Google News, allow consumers to search for news topics of their choosing as well, and present all the articles it finds on the same topic. But these solutions dont go far enough, as they dont address a major issue - there is still a very high volume of news. In July 2016 a study was conducted by the Statistic Brain Research Institute that said that the average attention span of a person is now as low as 8.25 seconds. In addition to this, the Institutes findings also said that the average person only reads 28\% of a webpage of average length (593 words). Another key finding was that users spend only 4.4 seconds to cover each additional 100 words on a webpage. Its simply not feasible for a consumer to go through several different sources take on a piece of news, which is what many aggregators still expect them to do. My solution is for a news aggregator that goes further. My news aggregator, NewSumm, would have a primary aim of not only aggregating news, but of combining multiple sources articles on a piece of news, and summarising them into one short piece. Using the example from before, the intention would be that the consumer only has to read one summary that incorporates the facts from several different sources on Trumps visit to the Vatican.