Article Title: Storm Doris may have caused second death Article Body: Police are
investigating whether a second death on Thursday was caused by high winds
associated with Storm Doris, which wreaked havoc across the UK. An investigation
is already under way into the death of a 29-year-old woman who sustained head
injuries when she was struck by “wooden debris” while walking past a cafe in
Wolverhampton city centre. West Midlands police were working with Wolverhampton
council to establish the events leading to the woman’s death. “The lady’s family
have been informed and are being supported at this tragic time,” a spokeswoman
said. A second investigation has been launched into whether the winds, which
reached up to 94mph in some parts of the UK, may also have played a part in the
death of a woman involved in a collision with a road sweeper in Swindon. The
woman is believed to have been pushing an empty pushchair to pick up her young
child when the collision happened at 4.30pm. The Met Office said there were
gusts of up to 48mph in Wiltshire at the time. Emily Woodman, who lives on the
road where the woman died, said: “From what I’ve heard from the mums, the wind
blew the empty buggy into the road and she went in after it. She was hit by the
road sweeper and was trapped and she died at the scene sadly. The wind was
strong but I wouldn’t have thought that it would have been that strong to do
that.” A spokesman for Wiltshire police said: “A white road maintenance vehicle
was in collision with a pedestrian. A 32-year-old lady from Swindon sadly died
at the scene. Next of kin have been informed and formal identification will take
place in due course.” The spokesman said it was too early to say whether the
storm was a factor in the death and appealed for witnesses to the incident in
Beechcroft Road. Sea foam and high winds as Storm Doris hits In Milton Keynes, a
girl was taken to hospital after a sports hall ceiling collapsed at Southwood
middle school, while two elderly people sustained neck injuries when a tree
crashed on to their car in Shropshire. Yellow severe weather warnings from the
Met Office remained in place on Friday in the north-west of England and
Scotland. Train services still affected by the storm included those run by
Arriva Trains Wales, Great Northern, Greater Anglia, London Midland, Southern,
Stansted Express and Virgin Trains. There were no delays reported at airports
and Highways England was reporting only minor delays on the roads. As Doris
cleared to the east, the Met Office warned drivers to be wary of ice in
Scotland, Northern Ireland and north-west England. “It’s an ice risk so when
people wake up tomorrow morning and head out to work there could be some
difficult driving conditions,” the meteorologist Alex Burkill said. As
relatively calm weather returned, the devastation left by Doris became clear. A
man was in a serious condition in a central London hospital, following reports
of “debris falling from the roof of a building” by Victoria station at about 3pm
on Thursday. Related: Storm Doris hits the UK – in pictures In Stoke-on-Trent, a
woman in her 60s was taken to hospital with a serious head injury after being
hit by a carport roof. West Midlands ambulance service said she was also treated
for injuries to her face, hand and chest before being taken to Royal Stoke
university hospital for further care. The top wind speed of 94mph was recorded
in Capel Curig, north Wales, on Thursday morning. The weather system, which
brought gales, snow and rain to much of the UK, caused travel disruption
throughout Thursday on the roads and the rail network, brought down trees,
grounded planes and toppled large vehicles. Network Rail imposed a speed limit
on some lines while Heathrow airport reduced its flight schedule. Man blown off
his feet by Storm Doris in Liverpool A number of roads were closed, including
the M6 Thelwall Viaduct in both directions in the north-west, and the QE2 Bridge
in Dartford, Kent. In Scotland, the M80 was closed in both directions because of
snow, which also shut schools and led to the cancellation of some ferry
services. In Ireland, almost 46,000 households had no electricity on Thursday
morning.

Labels: Storm,Storm surge,Chief of police,Binary tree,Ice storm,Weather
modification,Snow emergency,Winter storm,Child actor,Child pornography,

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Article Title: Angela Merkel 'help caused my mum's suicide', claims son of
ex-German Chancellor Article Body: The son of ex-German Chancellor Helmut Kohl
claims Angela Merkel helped cause his mum's suicide. Walter Kohl, whose dad
ruled over West Germany and the unified Germany after the fall of the Berlin
Wall, has accused Mrs Merkel of "sleazy" behaviour. The feud between Mrs Merkel
and Chancellor Kohl began when she wrote a newspaper column in 1999 calling on
him to come clean over illicit payments that funded his election campaigns. The
column helped bring about her former mentor's downfall and paved the way for her
to become the most powerful woman in Europe. Mr Kohl never recovered from the
financial scandal and Mrs Merkel became leader of their party, the Christian
Democratic Union , a year after her column was printed. Mr Kohl's wife
Hannelore, who suffered from a crippling anxiety to sunlight, took her own life
in 2001. The former Chancellor's son took aim at Mrs Merkel in a new TV
programme, ZEITmagazin, The Times reported. He said: “For me, Mrs Merkel played
a not insignificant part in my mother’s death. “As an experienced politician,
Mrs Merkel knew she was starting an avalanche that would also damage our mother
and our family. “It was sleazy and made worse because she had become friends
with my mother. My mother became persona non grata. For her it was even worse
because she felt betrayed by Merkel.” Walter has also been highly critical of
his father in the past, accusing him of putting politics before family life. The
former Chancellor, now 86, rarely makes public appearances.

Labels: The Partridge Family,Mother Nature,Family (biology),Nuclear
family,Family medicine,Royal family,The Greatest Game Ever Played,Leader of the
Opposition (United Kingdom),Death metal,Minority leader,

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Article Title: Emmanuel Macron vows aggressive fight against far right on UK
visit Article Body: Emmanuel Macron, the centrist candidate for the French
presidency, has vowed his campaign will learn from the mistakes of David
Cameron’s Brexit and Hillary Clinton’s failed election campaign by being boldly
pro-liberal and pro-Europe. Speaking after a meeting with Theresa May in Downing
Street on Tuesday, Macron defended his decision to be unambiguous in his views
as he fights a campaign against the far-right’s Marine Le Pen, saying: “In the
current environment, if you are shy, you are dead.” He added: “In the current
environment, when extremes and anti-globalisation win elections, that is
probably the best moment for France to decide to do the opposite.” The
39-year-old, who was in London for what is by now a familiar pre-election
campaign stop-off for a French presidential candidate, risked irritating his
hosts by reiterating his warning that the Le Touquet agreement covering
Anglo-French cooperation over migrants at Calais would have to be rethought. “As
for security and immigration, I have been extremely consistent that post-Brexit
Le Touquet, if it is not part of the EU package, is something that we will have
to reconsider in a very pragmatic way. That is not to say we have to kill the
agreement but to consider the fact today it is not a fair relationship and we
have to deal with a lot of people on our side waiting for acceptance,” he said.
There were few signs that a Macron presidency would mean a friendly Elysée
palace for May’s government as the Brexit negotiations unfold. Standing outside
10 Downing Street, he said he wanted “banks, talents, researchers, academics” to
move across the Channel after Britain leaves the EU – and that his programmes
would include “a series of initiatives to get talented people in research and
lots of fields working here to come to France”. The candidate, who describes his
platform for the spring elections as “neither left nor right”, said Britain
should not be able to access the European single market unless it respected the
four freedoms, including free movement of labour within the EU. Related:
Emmanuel Macron: the French outsider who would be president The former economy
minister added there could be no access to the market or financial passporting
for the City of London without financial contributions to the EU. He also became
the most senior European politician to say the UK will have to remain subject to
rules of the European court of justice (ECJ) in any transition period after the
UK has formally left the EU, a proposal that will appal most Tory eurosceptics.
“We need a common judge during this intermediate period and the European court
of justice has to deal with the rules,” he said. “Until the very end of the
process you are part of the EU and the European court of justice is competent,
for sure, or otherwise there is not a judge to respect. This would apply for the
transition and the very end of the process.” The British prime minister could
have turned down Macron’s request for a meeting, and the fact she chose to hold
30 minutes of talks with the candidate shows how seriously Britain is taking the
possibility of the centrist winning in the May elections. Most European
observers regard the French poll as the most critical for the future of Europe
among the run of possible elections this year in the Netherlands, Italy and
Germany. Macron’s London trip and a rally for 3,000 supporters near Westminster
due on Tuesday night comes as he attempts to get his campaign back on track
after a troubled week. Polls show Le Pen has an increasingly solid lead in the
first round of the presidential election, with Macron slipping back to equal
standing with the beleaguered rightwing candidate François Fillon, who is
continuing with his campaign despite a preliminary investigation into whether he
gave his wife a fake parliamentary job from public funds. All polls currently
show Le Pen will be defeated in the second round. But this week an Opinionway
survey for Les Echos, showed the gap in the second-round narrowing – with Macron
versus Le Pen on 58% to 42%, and Fillon versus Le Pen on 56% to 44%. Macron, who
does not have a party apparatus behind him, is due to unveil his economic
programme at the end of the week and his full manifesto on 2 March just before
the start of the formal campaign. Briefing reporters on Tuesday after his
meeting with May, Macron insisted he could win on his open platform, saying
French voters did not behave in the same way as other electorates. He said in
many of the recent victories for populism the defenders of the liberal order
refused to endorse their principles with sufficient aggression. “David Cameron
did not defend remain, actually; they defended ‘a yes but’, which is not the
best way to win against a no - and they lost.” Hillary Clinton’s campaign for US
president, he added, “had not been very clear, or as clear as Bill Clinton’s
campaign 15 years ago”. “The French people are ready to move forward and reform
themselves. So I think this election is a critical decision in France – do you
want to move forward to succeed in an open world with 21st century protections
or do you want to close frontiers, go back to a 1960s 1970s economy, and stop
with Europe and with globalisation. That is a big question mark.” But he
insisted: “If you play on a national scale you get killed. It’s bullshit to say
you can be defended on the national scale. Everybody now needs Europe.” He
defended his comments last week in which he had stirred controversy by saying
France had committed human rights abuses in Algeria. “We all have to think very
carefully and with a lot of lucidity look at our colonial past, without opening
a Pandora’s box,” he said. The view from London The British capital has become a
compulsory campaign stop for French presidential candidates seeking to boost
their international credentials and court the growing ex-pat vote. London is
home to around 300,000 of the 400,000 French people in Britain, a population
large enough to be considered politically as France’s sixth biggest city. It was
Nicolas Sarkozy who 10 years ago began the trend for presidential campaign
rallies in what was quickly called “Paris-on-Thames”, staging a London rally
urging expats to come home, saying: “France is still your country even if you’re
disappointed by it.” At Macron’s rally at Methodist Central Hall near
Westminster, EU flags had been laid out for supporters. Many French people in
the crowd – from students to pensioners – said they were worried about the
future for European citizens in the UK after Britain’s vote to leave. Beatrice,
69, a former languages teacher and further education college head, who has lived
in England for more than 40 years, had come out of curiosity. She was
considering a Macron vote simply as a default “simply because it has become more
and more difficult to vote for anyone else”. She felt the rightwing Fillon was
tarnished and rendered “unelectable” by the accusations that he paid his wife
from public funds for an alleged fake job as a parliamentary assistant, and on
the left, Benoît Hamon, was “too much of a dreamer”. She feared Le Pen’s strong
position: “After Brexit and Trump’s election, it feels like anything is
possible.” Macron’s “youth and energy” was a plus point, but she said: “He needs
to set out his policies.” Gerald Sigrist, 23, a student in war studies at Kings
College London, originally from near Nice, supported Fillon but was open to
voting Macron, “if he proves he can be presidential”. While Macron was visiting
Downing Street, an engineer in his 30s from near Marseille stopped to behold the
camera crews. With five years of higher education, a stable job at a major firm,
sharply dressed and on a weekend break to London, he might have fitted the
stereotype of a Macron supporter. “No, I’ll be voting Marine Le Pen, my mind is
made up, nothing will change it,” he said. “It’s about immigration. We’re paying
our taxes and other people are benefiting, it’s as simple as that.”

Labels: Campaign manager,Political campaign,Political machine,Government in
exile,Political science,Semi-presidential system,Campaign finance,Presidential
memorandum,PEN International,United States presidential primary,


Article Title: Suicide bombers hit court in Pakistan, at least four killed:
Police - Times of India Article Body: PESHAWAR, Pakistan: Suicide bombers
attacked a court complex in Pakistan on Tuesday, killing at least four people,
officials said, in the latest incident in a new surge of Islamist violence+ . A
spokesman for the Pakistani Taliban's Jamaat-ur-Ahrar faction claimed
responsibility for the attack in the northwestern town of Charsadda. The
district administration said at least four people were killed. A witness told
Reuters he had seen "many" dead bodies at the scene. A string of bombings in
Pakistan over the past 10 days+ has killed more than 100 people. Town resident
Mohammad Shah Baz told Reuters he was inside the judicial complex when the
suicide bombers stormed it. "I escaped towards the canteen and climbed the wall
to save my life. But there were many people dead and injured," he said. District
police chief Sohail Khalid said at least one of the attackers blew himself up
and another opened fire at the main entrance of the court compound before they
were shot and killed. Jamaat-ur-Ahrar spokesman Asad Mansoor claimed
responsibility the attack in a message to journalists. He said fighting was
still going on at the court. Stay updated on the go with Times of India News
App. Click here to download it for your device.

Labels: Killed or Seriously Injured,Fire extinguisher,Who Killed John
Savage?,Killed in action,1976 Tehran UFO incident,The Best!: Updated Morning
Musume,List of Gardaí killed in the line of duty,Scene (filmmaking),Import
scene,Scene,

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Topic: number recent find early climate sea temperatures temperature study
research

Article Title: New maps reveal unusually early spring spreading across America
Article Body: Groundhog Day came and went, bringing predictions of six more
weeks of winter – but in the weeks to come, much of the US was instead greeted
by unseasonably warm weather. For some, spring has already begun well ahead of
schedule, a new study led by the US Geological Survey reveals. A series of maps
illustrating the data shows how spring is popping up across almost the entire
Southeast, from San Antonio to Washington, D.C. But, while many may be rejoicing
in the onset of warmer weather, researchers warn the changing climate could
affect health, society, and the economy. The map shows how spring is popping up
across almost the entire Southeast, from San Antonio to Washington, D.C. Coastal
California, southern Nevada, southeastern Colorado, central Kansas, Missouri,
southern Illinois, Indiana, and Ohio are now starting to experience warmer
temperatures as well JANUARY 2017 WAS THE THIRD HOTTEST  This past January was
the third warmest on record, a new analysis of global temperatures has revealed.
The data show January was .92 degrees Celsius warmer than the average January
temperature from 1951-1980. The most recent anomaly comes right on the heels of
the hottest year in 137 years of record keeping. This year comes only behind
January 2016, which was 1.12°C warmer than the mean, and 2007, which was .96°C
warmer than the mean.  The maps from the USGS-led USA National Phenology Network
show spring has begun three weeks early in some places. Across the southern
Great Plains and Southeast Atlantic Coast, spring is well underway – and in
Washington, DC, it came 22 days early. Coastal California, southern Nevada,
southeastern Colorado, central Kansas, Missouri, southern Illinois, Indiana, and
Ohio are now starting to experience warmer temperatures as well. And, West
Virginia and Virginia are feeling the effects as well, while Philly and
Indianapolis will likely be hit soon. The new data comes right on the heels of
2016 – the hottest year ever recorded, and the third record-breaking year in a
row. ‘While these earlier springs might not seem like a big deal – and who among
us doesn’t appreciate a balmy day or a break in dreary winter weather – it poses
significant challenges for planning and managing important issues that affect
our economy and our society,’ said Dr Jake Weltzin, a USGS ecologist and the
executive director of the USA-NPN. An early spring could have a number of
consequences for human health, the researchers explain. RELATED ARTICLES
Previous 1 2 Next How much do YOU reveal on Instagram? Psychologists say site...
Mexican skull study reveals man made multiple migrations to... Can YOU spot the
moon? Eagle-eyed astronomer finds Voyager 1... Global warming is SHRINKING the
Colorado River and could... Share this article Share To create the maps,
researchers used climate indicators known as Spring Indices. These are based on
nationwide field observations collected when enough heat has accumulated to
initiate leafing and blooming in lilacs and honeysuckles, two flowering plants
known to be temperature sensitive This includes the arrival of early-season
disease-carriers, like ticks and mosquitoes, and a longer pollen season. It
could be risky for crops, as there is a higher likelihood of damage from late
frosts or drought, despite the longer growing season. And, early blooms could
disrupt the relationship between wildflowers and pollinators, including birds,
bees, and butterflies. Researchers say the changing climate could be both
beneficial and harmful, with potential to affect wildlife and human activity
alike. To create the maps, researchers used climate indicators known as Spring
Indices. Coastal California, southern Nevada, southeastern Colorado, central
Kansas, Missouri, southern Illinois, Indiana, and Ohio are now starting to
experience warmer temperatures as well. And, West Virginia and Virginia are
feeling the effects as well, while Philly and Indianapolis will likely be hit
soon These are based on nationwide field observations collected when enough heat
has accumulated to initiate leafing and blooming in lilacs and honeysuckles, two
flowering plants known to be temperature sensitive. They also used heat and
temperature data from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, daily
data for the National Weather Service, and historical data from a database
maintained by Oregon State University. By applying the plant models to the
recent data, the team was able to create national-scale daily maps of leaf
emergence. And, comparing this with the historical maps, they were able to
determine the difference relative to the long term averages. The data largely
reveal spring has arrived unusually early in much of the US.   

Labels: Room temperature,Instrumental temperature record,Research vessel,Sea
surface temperature,Endgame study,Longitudinal study,Sea,Recent African origin
of modern humans,Climate model,Operating temperature,

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Topic:
world
side
point
top
full
world
title
champion
fight
career

Article Title: McDonnell vs Vargas: Find out a bit more about Mexican Rey Vargas
Article Body: Gavin McDonnell is facing a familiar name when he challenges Rey Vargas for the vacant WBC super-bantamweight title, live on Sky Sports, but here's a few stats and facts about the latest Vargas trying to put Mexican boxing back on the map. An unbeaten 26-year-old Mexican, who has worked his way up to become No 1 contender in the WBC super-bantamweight rankings. February 25, 2017, 8:00pm Live on Well, he shares the surname with some famous compatriots. Jessie, the former world super-lightweight world champion who just took Manny Pacquiao the distance, Francisco or 'El Bandito' and of course, Fernando Vargas, 'El Feroz' or 'Ferocious', who could punch and take out the best. It's a common name in that part of the world, but we do know that Rey is not the twin brother of any of them, unlike Gavin and Jamie, the current WBA bantamweight champion. The twins could both be world champions come Saturday night if Gavin can pick up the vacant title. Hozumi Hasegawa has retired. The Japanese star had held world titles at bantam and featherweight and wanted to fill the gap in the middle when he took on Hugo Ruiz in September, out in the Land Of The Rising Sun. Hasegawa stopped the champion in the ninth, picked up the WBC strap then called it a day straight away. In fact, he had promised to retire, win, lose or draw. The WBC initially suggested that Guillermo Rigondeaux would be the man to get a shot at it once it was vacant, but he hasn't boxed since coming over here to fight James "Jazza" Dickens last July. Rigondeaux is still the WBA holder and has a mandatory defence against another Mexican, Moises Flores, and unifications are a rarity involving the WBC. So Vargas won the WBC International Silver title last year and McDonnell the basic Silver strap, which tells you that the Mexican has the edge in terms of rankings. It looks that way but Gavin is unbeaten himself. Vargas will bring a frightening 79 per cent knockout ratio into the ring and his KO record is better than fellow Vargas 'Fernando', who had a mere 71 per cent. Rey has stopped 22 of his opponents with 11 of them coming inside the first two rounds. Well he's only boxed outside Mexico twice, and been scheduled to go the full 12 championship rounds twice, including last time out when he stopped former two-time super-flyweight world champion Alexander Munoz of Venezuela, in five. His trainer is none other than living Mexican legend and Hall of Famer, Ignacio Beristáin. 'Nacho' has been behind some of Mexico's biggest names and even bigger gains, including Ricardo Lopez, Juan Manuel Marquez, Rafael Marquez, Daniel Zaragoza, Oscar de la Hoya, Jorge Arce, Jhonny Gonzalez... He is not the first or last Mexican to have an excellent amateur career, winning the WBC Youth Silver and International silvers in 2013, a year after becoming the IBF's world No 1. Luke Campbell faced him a few years ago in the amateur ranks, out-pointing him but was impressed: "I haven't seen how he's got on at pro, but Vargas was tall, quick and strong and gave me a tough fight. He was big at the weight back then." Luke Campbell on Rey Vargas He does indeed. His two fights outside his homeland were in California, but he resides in Otumba, a cool - literally - 5,400 miles away from Hull. North east of Mexico City, perhaps best-known for the annual donkey festival, which is known as the 'donkeydrome' and is not as quaint as you may think, according to the Daily Mail. Last year animal rights demonstrators made a stance, after 5,000 locals cheered donkey races down the streets.  Well, McDonnell is fighting on home soil making the short trip from Doncaster, but Sky Bet still have him as the underdog at 15/8. Vargas is 2/5 on and the draw, is the standard 25/1. Watch Gavin McDonnell vs Rey Vargas for the vacant WBC world super-bantamweight title from the Hull Ice Arena, live on Sky Sports 2 on Saturday from 8.00pm.

Labels:
List of WBA world champions,Fight song,FIFA World Cup,Fight of the Century,World Chess Championship,Side by Side by Sondheim,Champion,Full contact karate,Full House,World war,

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Topic:
court
police
government
country
support
military
means
issue
left
soldier

Article Title: Sentencing of Israeli soldier in shooting deepens fissures
Article Body: JERUSALEM (AP) — An Israeli soldier was sentenced Tuesday to 18 months in prison for killing a badly wounded Palestinian assailant as he lay on the ground, in a landmark decision that deepened fissures in Israeli society and drew Palestinian criticism for being too lenient. Leading nationalist Israeli politicians called any jail time unfair and urged an immediate pardon, while Palestinians dismissed Israel's justice system as a "joke." The sentencing of Sgt. Elor Azaria culminated a nearly yearlong saga that has bitterly divided the country. While Israel's top generals pushed for the prosecution of a soldier they say violated the military's code of ethics, large segments of the public, including politicians on Israel's nationalist right, sided with Azaria. Even Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu gave only lukewarm support to his military. Although the sentence was lighter than expected, those divisions showed no signs of easing following Tuesday's sentencing at a Tel Aviv military court. Dozens of people demonstrated outside in support of Azaria, one of them holding a poster that said "Trump would do the same," and hard-line politicians called for his release. "Even if he erred, Elor should not sit in prison. We will all pay the price," said Education Minister Naftali Bennett, leader of the nationalist Jewish Home Party. Azaria, an army medic, was recorded on a cellphone video last March as he fatally shot a badly wounded Palestinian who had stabbed a soldier in the West Bank city of Hebron. The Palestinian, Abdel Fattah al-Sharif, was lying on the ground unarmed when Azaria shot him in the head. Azaria was convicted of manslaughter last month in a rare case of a military court ruling against a combat soldier for lethal action taken in the field. The verdict marked a victory for commanders who said Azaria had violated army procedures. But the soldier enjoyed wide public support. In Israel, military service is compulsory for most Jewish men, and soldiers enjoy widespread sympathy. A Channel 2 TV poll taken after the conviction found that 67 percent of respondents supported clemency. The poll questioned 666 people and had a margin of error of 4.4 percentage points. Asa Kasher, a philosopher who wrote the Israeli army's code of ethics, said the case has unleashed dangerous trends in the country. "One shot by one soldier took on the shape of a war between right and left," he told Channel 2. He said "extremists" initially took up Azaria's cause, and hard-line politicians followed suit. "Anyone with right-wing sentiments enlisted, and everyone in the end rallied behind a soldier who harmed the values of the Israeli army," he said. Politicians' support for the soldier fueled the resignation last year of then-Defense Minister Moshe Yaalon, a former military chief of staff. He was replaced by Avigdor Lieberman, a hard-line politician who had earlier visited Azaria in court during the trial. Lieberman has since toned down his language, and on Tuesday, he urged the public to respect the court's decision. Netanyahu, who initially defended the military, later softened his position and called Azaria's parents to console them. After last month's verdict, he called for Azaria to be pardoned. Netanyahu was on a trip to Singapore and Australia this week and did not immediately react to the sentencing. Kasher said a pardon would be devastating for the military. "It means you can throw commanders' inquiries out the window. You can throw the military court and its decisions out the other window and the racist atmosphere that says you may kill terrorists even if they are neutralized will rule," he said. President Reuven Rivlin is not expected to consider a pardon until the appeals process is complete. The shooting took place at the height of an ongoing wave of violence. Since September 2015, Palestinian attackers have carried out numerous stabbing, shooting and car ramming attacks that have killed 41 Israelis and two visiting Americans. During the same time, Israeli forces have killed 235 Palestinians, most of them said to be attackers. Palestinians and human rights groups have accused Israeli forces of using excessive force and even harming innocent people mistaken for attackers. But before the video of the shooting, taken by a Palestinian human rights activist, it was difficult to prove these claims. Human rights groups praised the conviction but dismissed Tuesday's sentence as far too lenient. Prosecutors had sought a sentence of three to five years in prison. "Azaria's light sentence of 18 months is an expression of disregard for the value of Palestinian life and likewise fails to serve as a deterrent," said Hassan Jabareen, general director of Adalah, an Arab rights advocacy group in Israel. Issa Karaka, the Palestinian government minister in charge of prisoner affairs, called the sentence a "joke." "It shows how much discrimination Israeli courts practice against Palestinians," he said. Prosecution of Israeli soldiers on serious crimes like manslaughter is rare. According to the Israeli rights group Yesh Din, the military has launched 262 investigations into fatalities on the Palestinian side since 2000, but issued indictments in just 17. Only one of those ended with a manslaughter conviction — in the case of a pro-Palestinian British peace activist who was shot by an army sniper in the Gaza Strip in 2003. The group says the indictment rate involving Jewish settler violence against Palestinian civilians in the West Bank is just 7.3 percent. In contrast, Palestinians tried in Israeli military courts are convicted nearly 100 percent of the time, said Qadora Fares, head of the Palestinian prisoners' association, which represents the more than 5,000 Palestinians held in Israeli prisons. He said Palestinians convicted in the deaths of Israelis receive life sentences, while crimes like throwing stones carry a minimum six-month sentence and throwing firebombs carry a minimum one year, even if no one is hurt. The Azaria case bore a resemblance to the murder conviction in Britain of Alexander Blackman, a Royal Marine who was sentenced to a minimum 10 years by a military court for killing a wounded Taliban fighter in Afghanistan in 2011. Such a conviction for a serving soldier is extremely rare in Britain, and supporters, including tabloid newspapers, said Blackman was under extreme stress after heavy fighting and losing close comrades. Azaria, who has been confined to a base since last year, is to begin his sentence on March 5. He will not receive credit for time served, but will be eligible to seek an early "conditional release" based on factors like good behavior, the army said. His sentence also includes one year probation and a demotion in rank. The 20-year-old Azaria entered the court smiling and was greeted by applause from friends and relatives. He then had a long embrace with his mother and other family members. Last month's verdict was accompanied by angry outbursts in the courtroom and protesters outside who briefly blocked streets and scuffled with police. Reactions were more muted Tuesday as Azaria's father, Charlie, took a more calming approach, asking supporters not to disrupt the proceedings. After the sentencing, the family sang Israel's national anthem. The relatively light sentence still triggered disappointment from supporters. "The prosecution was thirsty for Elor's blood and the sentencing proves that," said defense lawyer Yoram Sheftel, vowing an appeal. ___ Associated Press writers Ami Bentov in Tel Aviv, Daniel Estrin in Jerusalem, Mohammed Daraghmeh in Ramallah, West Bank, and Jill Lawless in London contributed to this report.

Labels:
Court,Military police,Means test,Court-martial,Single-issue politics,Government in exile,E-government,Issue network,Ways and means committee,Government,

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


